### Exercise 10.1-1

Using Figure 10.1 as a model, illustrate the result of each operation in the sequence
PUSH(S, 4), PUSH(S, 1), PUSH(S, 3), POP(S), PUSH(S, 8), and POP(S) on an
initially empty stack S stored in array S[1..6].


    4   
    4   1
    4   1   3
    4   1
    4   1   8
    4   1

### Exercise 10.1-2

Explain how to implement two stacks in one array A[1..n] in such a way that
neither stack overflows unless the total number of elements in both stacks together
is n. The PUSH and POP operations should run in $O(1)$ time.

We can implement two stacks M and N, which M is start from 1 up to  n, and N start from n down to 1, when M.top meet N.top, then it's overflows.

### Exercise 10.1-3

Using Figure 10.2 as a model, illustrate the result of each operation in the
sequence ENQUEUE(Q, 4), ENQUEUE(Q, 1), ENQUEUE(Q, 3), DEQUEUE(Q),
ENQUEUE(Q, 8), and DEQUEUE(Q) on an initially empty queue Q stored in array Q[1..6].

    4
    4   1
    4   1   3
        1   3
        1   3   8
            3   8

### Exercise 10.1-4

Rewrite ENQUEUE and DEQUEUE to detect underflow and overflow of a queue.

    ENQUEUE(Q, x)
        if Q.tail + 1 == Q.head or Q.head == 1 and Q.tail == Q.length
            error "queue overflow"
        Q[Q.tail] = x
        if Q.tail == Q.length
            Q.tail = 1
        else 
            Q.tail = Q.tail + 1

    DEQUEUE(Q)
        if Q.head == Q.tail
            error "queue is empty"
        x = Q[Q.head]
        if Q.head == Q.length
            Q.head = 1
        else 
            Q.head = Q.head + 1
        return x

### Exercise 10.1-5

Whereas a stack allows insertion and deletion of elements at only one end, and a
queue allows insertion at one end and deletion at the other end, a deque (doubleended queue) allows insertion and deletion at both ends. Write four $O(1)$-time
procedures to insert elements into and delete elements from both ends of a deque
implemented by an array.

    HEAD-DEQUEUE(Q)
        x = Q[Q.head]
        if Q.head == Q.length
            Q.head = 1
        else 
            Q.head = Q.head + 1
        return x

    HEAD-ENQUEUE(Q, x)
        if Q.head == 1
            Q.head == Q.length
        else 
            Q.head = Q.head - 1
        Q[Q.head] = x

    TAIL-ENQUEUE(Q, x)
        Q[Q.tail] = x
        if Q.tail == Q.length
            Q.tail = 1
        else 
            Q.tail = Q.tail + 1

    TAIL-DEQUEUE(Q)
        if Q.tail == 1
            Q.tail = Q.length
        esle 
            Q.tail = Q.tail - 1
        return Q[Q.tail]

### Exercise 10.1.6

Show how to implement a queue using two stacks. Analyze the running time of the queue operations.

We can use two stacks--A and B. ENQUEUE is push element in A, and DEQUEUE is pop element from B, when B is empty, transfer all elements of A to B. The running time of the worst-case is $O(n)$, and average-case is $O(1)$.

### Exercise 10.1-7

Show how to implement a stack using two queues. Analyze the running time of the stack operations.

Let's use two queues--A and B. PUSH is enqueue element to A, and POP is transfer all elemetns from A to B, except the last element, return the last one. The running tim is $O(n)$.