### Exercise 10.2-1

Can you implement the dynamic-set operation INSERT on a singly linked list
in $O(1)$ time? How about DELETE?

INSERT's running time is $O(1)$, and if we want to delete a key, the runnig time will be $O(n)$.

### Exercise 10.2-2

Implement a stack using a singly linked list L. The operations PUSH and POP should still take $O(1)$ time.

    PUSH(L, x)
        x.next = L.head
        L.head = x

    POP(L)
        if L.head == NIL
            error "stack is empty"
        x = L.head
        L = L.head.next
        return x

### Exercise 10.2-3

Implement a queue by a singly linked list L. The operations ENQUEUE and DEQUEUE should still take O(1) time.

We need to keep track the last element of L, let's say tail.

    ENQUEUE(L, x)
        L.tail.next = x
        L.tail = x
        x.next = NIL

    DEQUEUE(L)
        if L.head == NIL
            error "the queue is empty"
        x = L.head
        L.head = L.head.next
        return x

### Exercise 10.2-4

As written, each loop iteration in the LIST-SEARCH'  procedure requires two tests:
one for x != L.nil and one for x.key != k . Show how to eliminate the test for x != L.nil in each iteration.

Let L.nil.key = k, and remove the test.

### Exercise 10.2-5

Implement the dictionary operations INSERT, DELETE, and SEARCH using singly linked, circular lists. What are the running times of your procedures?

INSERT(L, x)
    x.next = L.nil.next
    L.nil.next = x

DELETE(L, x)
    prev = L.nil
    whill prev.next != x
        if prev.next == L.nil
            error "can not find x"
        prev = prev.next
    prev.next = prev.next.next

SEARCH(L, x)
    c = L.nil.next
    while c != L.nil and c.key != x
        c = c.next
    return c

The runnig time are $O(1)$, $O(n)$, $O(n)$.

### Exercise 10.2-6

The dynamic-set operation UNION takes two disjoint sets $S_1$ and $S_2$ as input, and
it returns a set $S=S_1 \cup S_2$ consisting of all the elements of $S_1$ and $S_2$. The sets $S_1$ and $S_2$ are usually destroyed by the operation. Show how to support UNION in $O(1)$ time using a suitable list data structure.
    
Let's list has a member tail. Then we can make a set S from connecting S1.tail to S2.head.

### Exercise 10.2-7

Give a $O(n)$-time nonrecursive procedure that reverses a singly linked list of n elements. The procedure should use no more than constant storage beyond that
needed for the list itself.

    REVRESE(L)
        prev = NILL
        c = L.head
        while c != NIL
            tmp = c.next
            c.next = prev
            prev = c
            c = tmp

### Exercise 10.2-8

Explain how to implement doubly linked lists using only one pointer value x.np per item instead of the usual two (next and pre). Assume that all pointer values can be
interpreted as k-bit integers, and define x.np to be x.np = x.next XOR x.prev,
the k-bit “exclusive-or” of x.next and x.prev. (The value NIL is represented by 0.)
Be sure to describe what information you need to access the head of the list. Show
how to implement the SEARCH, INSERT, and DELETE operations on such a list.
Also show how to reverse such a list in $O(1)$ time.

    SEARCH(L, x)
        prev = NIL
        c = L.head
        while c != L.tail and c.key != x
            next = c.np XOR prev
            prev = c
            c = next
        
    INSERT(L, x)
        x.np = NIL XOR L.head
        L.head = x
        
    DElETE(L, x)
        c = L.head
        prev = NIL
        while c != L.tail and c != x
            next = c.np XOR prev
            prev = c
            c = next
        if c != NIL
            next = c.np XOR prev
            prev.np = (c XOR prev.np) XOR next
            next.np = (c XOR next.np) XOR prev

    REVERSE(L)
        tmp = L.head
        L.head = L.tail
        L.tail = tmp