### Exercise 4.1-1
What does FIND-MAXIMUM-SUBARRAY return when all elements of A are negative?

It will return the greatest element of A.

### Exercise 4.1-2
Write pseudocode for the brute-force method of solving the maximum-subarray
problem. Your procedure should run in $\Theta(n^2)$ time.

    //brute-force
    FIND-MAXIMUM-SUBARRAY(A)
        max_sum = INT_MIN
        for i = 1 to A.length
            tmp_sum = 0
            for j = i to A.length
                tmp_sum = tmp_sum + A[j]
                if tmp_sum > max_sum
                    max_sum = tmp_sum
        return max_sum

### Exercise 4.1-3

Implement both the brute-force and recursive algorithms for the maximumsubarray problem on your own computer. What problem size n0 gives the crossover
point at which the recursive algorithm beats the brute-force algorithm? Then,
change the base case of the recursive algorithm to use the brute-force algorithm
whenever the problem size is less than n0. Does that change the crossover point?

**TODO**

### Exercise 4.1-4

Suppose we change the definition of the maximum-subarray problem to allow the
result to be an empty subarray, where the sum of the values of an empty subarray is 0. How would you change any of the algorithms that do not allow empty
subarrays to permit an empty subarray to be the result?

We can return an empty subarray when the maximum sum of the subarray is negative.

### Exercise 4.1-5

Use the following ideas to develop a nonrecursive, linear-time algorithm for the
maximum-subarray problem. Start at the left end of the array, and progress toward
the right, keeping track of the maximum subarray seen so far. Knowing a maximum
subarray of A[1..j], extend the answer to find a maximum subarray ending at index j + 1 by using the following observation: a maximum subarray of AŒ1 : : j C 1
is either a maximum subarray of A[1..j] or a subarray A[1..j+1], for some
1 <= i <= j + 1. Determine a maximum subarray of the form A[1..j+1] in
constant time based on knowing a maximum subarray ending at index j .

    //linear-time
    FIND-MAXIMUM-SUBARRAY(A)
        max_sum = INT_MIN
        sum = 0
        tmp_beg = beg = end = 0
        for i = 1 to A.length
            if sum < 0
                sum = A[i]
                tmp_beg = i
            else 
                sum += A[i]
            if sum > max_sum
                max_sum = sum
                beg = tmp_beg
                end = i
        return (beg, end, max_sum)
