### Exercise 10.3-2

Write the procedures ALLOCATE-OBJECT and FREE-OBJECT for a homogeneous
collection of objects implemented by the single-array representation.

    ALLOCATE-OBJECT()
        if free == NIL or free + 2 == NIL
            error "out of space"
        else 
            x = free
            free = A[x+1]
            return x

    FREE-OBJECT(x)
        A[x+1] = free
        free = x

### Exercise 10.3-3

Why don’t we need to set or reset the prev attributes of objects in the implementation of the ALLOCATE-OBJECT and FREE-OBJECT procedures?

They will be set when they are used again.

### Exercise 10.3-4

It is often desirable to keep all elements of a doubly linked list compact in storage,
using, for example, the first m index locations in the multiple-array representation.
(This is the case in a paged, virtual-memory computing environment.) Explain
how to implement the procedures ALLOCATE-OBJECT and FREE-OBJECT so that
the representation is compact. Assume that there are no pointers to elements of the
linked list outside the list itself. (Hint: Use the array implementation of a stack.)   

    ALLOCATE-OBJECT()
        if empty(F)
            erorr "out of space"
        x = POP(F)
        return x

    FREE-OBJECT(x)
        PUSH(F, x)

### Exercise 10.3-5

Let L be a doubly linked list of length n stored in arrays key, prev, and next of
length m. Suppose that these arrays are managed by ALLOCATE-OBJECT and
FREE-OBJECT procedures that keep a doubly linked free list F . Suppose further
that of the m items, exactly n are on list L and m - n are on the free list. Write
a procedure COMPACTIFY-LIST(L, F) that, given the list L and the free list F ,
moves the items in L so that they occupy array positions 1, 2...n and adjusts the
free list F so that it remains correct, occupying array positions n+1, n+2...m.
The running time of your procedure should be $O(n)$, and it should use only a
constant amount of extra space. Argue that your procedure is correct.

Mark prev of each element of the free list as -2.  
We take two index, begin and end, one start from 1 up to m, one start from m down to 1, exchange the empty element indexed by begin with the non-empty elment indexed by end untile begin meet with end.  
Rearrange L and F.  

    COMPACTIFY-LIST(L, F)
        //mark
        c = F.head
        while c != NIL
            prev[c] = -2
            c = next[c]

        l = 1
        r = m
        while l < r
            while prev[l] != -2
                l = l + 1
            
            while prev[r] == -2
                r = r + 1
            
            prev[l] = prev[r]
            key[l] = key[r]
            next[l] = next[r]

            //store the index of l
            next[r] = l
        
        //rearrange L
        for i = 1 to r
            if next[i] > r
                next[i] = next[next[i]]
            if prev[i] > r
                prev[i] = next[prev[i]]
        
        //rearrange F
        for j = r + 1 to m - 1
            prev[j] = NIL
            key[j] = NIL
            next[j] = j + 1
        next[j] = NIL
