### Exercise 7.2-1
Use the substitution method to prove that the recurrence T(n) = T(n-1) + $\Theta(n)$
has the solution T(n) = $\Theta(n^2)$, as claimed at the beginning of Section 7.2.

Guess the solution is $T(n)=O(n^2)$, then
$$
\begin{aligned}
T(n) & \leq cn^2 \\
& = c(n-1)^2 + c1n \\
& = cn^2 + (c_1-2c)n + c_1 \\
& \leq cn^2
\end{aligned}
$$
for some c > 0.

### Exercise 7.2-2
What is the running time of QUICKSORT when all elements of array A have the
same value?

The running time will be $\Theta(n^2)$, because one subarry of the PARTION is always empty.

### Exercise 7.2-3

Show that the running time of QUICKSORT is $\Theta(n^2)$ when the array A contains
distinct elements and is sorted in decreasing order.

Let's think that, after the first iteration, the subarray which lower than the pivot A[A.size]. size of the subarray which greater than the pivot is A.size-1, and it remain in decreasing order, and reduce the problem size to A.size-1. So the running time is exactly $\Theta(n^2)$.

### Exercise 7.2-4

Banks often record transactions on an account in order of the times of the transactions, but many people like to receive their bank statements with checks listed in
order by check number. People usually write checks in order by check number, and
merchants usually cash them with reasonable dispatch. The problem of converting
time-of-transaction ordering to check-number ordering is therefore the problem of
sorting almost-sorted input. Argue that the procedure INSERTION-SORT would
tend to beat the procedure QUICKSORT on this problem.

Suppose INSERT-SORT will take few steps in inner iteration in a almost-sorted input, so the total running time is $O(cn)=O(n)$. And PARTION of QUICKSORT may create empty subarray of a almost-sorted input, so its running time will be $O(n^2)$.

### Exercise 7.2-5

Suppose that the splits at every level of quicksort are in the proportion $1-\alpha$ to $\alpha$
where $0<\alpha\leq1/2$ is a constant. Show that the minimum depth of a leaf in the recursion tree is approximately -$\lg n/\lg\alpha$˛ and the maximum depth is approximately -$\lg n/\lg (1-\alpha)$. (Don’t worry about integer round-off.)

Because $0<\alpha<1/2$, so $1-\alpha$ > $\alpha$, so the minimum depth of a leaf is $\log_{\alpha}(1/n)=\lg (1/n)/ \lg \alpha=-\lg n / \lg \alpha$, so does the maximum depth.

### Exercise 7.2-6

Argue that for any constant $0<\alpha\leq1/2$, the probability is approximately $1-2\alpha$
that on a random input array, PARTITION produces a split more balanced than $1-\alpha$ to $\alpha$.

PARTITION need to produce a split more balanced than $1-\alpha$ to $\alpha$, suppose there are k elements which is lower than the pivot, so that $(1-\alpha)n-k=\alpha n$ to be more balanced, and $k=(1-2\alpha)n$, so the probability is $k/n=1-2\alpha$.

