### Exercise 6.5-3

Write pseudocode for the procedures HEAP-MINIMUM, HEAP-EXTRACT-MIN,
HEAP-DECREASE-KEY, and MIN-HEAP-INSERT that implement a min-priority
queue with a min-heap.

    HEAP-MINIMUM(A)
        return A[1]

    HEAD-EXTRACT-MIN(A)
        if A.heap-size < 1
            error "heap underflow"
        min = A[1]
        A[1] = A[A.heap-size]
        A.heap-size = A.heap-size - 1
        MIN-HEAPIFY(A, 1)
        return min

    HEAP-DECREASE-KEY(A, i, key)
        if A[i] < key
            error "new key is larger than current key"
        A[i] = key
        while i > 1 and A[PARENT(i)] > A[i]
            exchange A[PARENT(i)] with A[i]
            i = PARENT(i)
        
    MIN-HEAP-INSERT(A, key)
        A.heap-size = A.heap-size + 1
        A[A.heap-size] = INT_MIN
        HEAP-DECREASE-KEY(A, A.heap-size, key)

### Exercise 6.5-4

Why do we bother setting the key of the inserted node to $-\infty$ in line 2 of MAX-HEAP-INSERT when the next thing we do is increase its key to the desired value?

By assigning $-\infty$ to A[A.heap-size] to guarantee that no error will occur in HEAP-DECREASE-KEY.

### Exercise 6.5-5
Argue the correctness of HEAP-INCREASE-KEY using the following loop invariant:

    At the start of each iteration of the while loop of lines 4–6, the subarray
    A[1..A.heap-size] satisfies the max-heap property, except that there may
    be one violation: A[i] may be larger than A[PARENT(i)].
You may assume that the subarray A[1..A.heap-size] satisfies the max-heap property at the time HEAP-INCREASE-KEY is called.


Initialization: Before the first iteration, just before line 3, the subarray A[1..A.heap-size] satisfies the max-heap property, after line 3, A[i] may be larger than A[PARENT(i)]. So the loop invariant is true.  
Maintenance: At each iteration of the loop, after lines 5-6, let new_i be the new i, 
and A[PARENT(i)] < A[i] statisfy the max-heap property, except that there may be one violation: A[new_i] maybe larget than A[PARENT(new_i)].  
Termination: The iteration terminated in two cases:1. i =1; 2. A[PARENT(i)] <= A[i]. If i=1 in the first case, there is no PARENT(i), so A[1..A.heap-size] satisfy the max-heap property; If A[PARENT(i)] <= A[i], then the only one violation isn't exist, so A is a max-heap.

### Exercise 6.5-6

Each exchange operation on line 5 of HEAP-INCREASE-KEY typically requires
three assignments. Show how to use the idea of the inner loop of INSERTION-SORT to reduce the three assignments down to just one assignment.

    HEAP-INCREASE-KEY-ONE-ASSIGNMENT(A, i, key)
        if key < A[i]
            error "new key is smaller than current key"
        x = A[i]
        while i > 1 and A[PARENT(i)] < key
            A[i] = A[PARENT(i)]
            i = PARENT(i)
        A[i] = key

### Exercise 6.5-7

Show how to implement a first-in, first-out queue with a priority queue. Show
how to implement a stack with a priority queue. (Queues and stacks are defined in Section 10.1.)

Using a counter as the key of MIN-HEAP when addin an element. To implement a stack, using a MAX-HEAP with a counter.

### Exercise 6.5-8

The operation HEAP-DELETE(A, i) deletes the item in node i from heap A. Give
an implementation of HEAP-DELETE that runs in $O(\lg n)$ time for an n-element max-heap.

HEAP-DELETE(A, i)
    if i < 1 or i > A.heap-size
        error "i is out of range"
    A[i] = MIN_MAX
    MAX-HEAPIFY(A, i)
    A.heap-size = A.heap-size - 1

### Exercise 6.5-9

Give an $O(n\lg k)$-time algorithm to merge k sorted lists into one sorted list,
where n is the total number of elements in all the input lists. (Hint: Use a minheap for k-way merging.)

Using heads of each of k sorted lists to construct a min-heap, then extraxt the minimum element of the minimue list and insert the new list without the head, until the heap is empty, the running time of extract the minmum list is $O(\lg k)$, and insertiont cost $O(\lg k)$, there will be n times of this procedure, thus its total running time will be $O(n\lg k)$.
