### Exercise 6.1-1
What are the minimum and maximum numbers of elements in a heap of height h?

minimum: $2^h$, maximum: $2^{h + 1} - 1$

### Exercise 6.1-2
Show that an n-element heap has height $\lfloor{\lg n}\rfloor$.

The minmum numbers of elements in a heap of height h is $2^h$, so we get,
$$
\begin{aligned}
2^h & \leq n \\
h & \leq \lg n
\end{aligned}
$$
so the height is $\lfloor{\lg n}\rfloor$.

### Exercise 6.1-3
Show that in any subtree of a max-heap, the root of the subtree contains the largest
value occurring anywhere in that subtree.

Becasuse the max-heap property is that for every node i other than the root,
$$A[PARENT(i)]\geq A[i]$$
so the root of the subtree is the largest value.

### Exercise 6.1-4
Where in a max-heap might the smallest element reside, assuming that all elements
are distinct?

Any of the leaves could be the smallest element.

### Exercise 6.1-5
Is an array that is in sorted order a min-heap?

Yes. Consider a index i, it's children will be 2i and 2i + 1. And A[i] >= A[2i] >= A[2i + 1], so the min-heap property is held.

### Exercise 6.1-6
Is the array with values {23, 17, 14, 6, 13, 10, 1, 5, 7, 12} a max-heap?

No. The index A[4] == 6, and its children is A[9] == 7 > A[4], so it isn't a max-heap.

### Exercise 6.1-7

Show that, with the array representation for storing an n-element heap, the leaves
are the nodes indexed by $\lfloor {n/2} \rfloor + 1$, $\lfloor {n/2} \rfloor + 2$, ...n .

Suppose that $\lfloor {n/2} \rfloor + 1$ is not a leaf, its children will be n + 2 and n + 3, they exceed the boundary n. So $\lfloor {n/2} \rfloor + 1$, $\lfloor {n/2} \rfloor + 2$, ...n are all leaves.