### Exercise 6.4-2

Argue the correctness of HEAPSORT using the following loop invariant:

    At the start of each iteration of the for loop of lines 2–5, the subarray
    A[1..i] is a max-heap containing the i smallest elements of A[1..n], and
    the subarray A[i+1..n] contains the n-1 largest elements of A[1..n],
    sorted.

Initialization: At the first iteration, i=A.length, the subarray A[i+1..n] is empty, so it's true.  
Maintenance: Let's see the each iteration of the loop, because A[1] is the largest element of A[1..i], after 
exchange A[1] with A[i], shrink the heap-size to i-1,
and A[i+1..n] is sorted, thus A[i..n] is sort. So the loop invariant is true before the next iteration.  
Termination: After the last termination, A[2..n] contain the largest element of A[1..n] in sorted order, thus, A[1..n] is sorted.

### Exercise 6.4-3

What is the running time of HEAPSORT on an array A of length n that is already
sorted in increasing order? What about decreasing order?

It's $\Theta(n\lg n)$ if it's in increasing order,  As we call MAX-HEAPIFY(A,i) in BUILD-HEAP, we know that A[i] is larger than all elements to its right, that means its running time will be $\lfloor \lg n - \lg i \rfloor$, so the total time 
$$\sum_{i=1}^{i=\lfloor n/2 \rfloor} \lg n - \lg i \in \Theta(n\lg n) $$
and the running time of lines 2-5 of BUILD-HEAP will be
$\Theta(n\lg n)$.  
A decreasing order array's running time will be $\Theta(n\lg n)$, because majority of the total running time is lines 2-5.

### Exercise 6.4-4

Show that the worst-case running time of HEAPSORT is $\Omega(n \lg n)$.

It's exactlly the fist case of Exercise 6.4-3.

### Exercise 6.4-5

Show that when all elements are distinct, the best-case running time of HEAPSORT
is $\Omega(n \lg n)$.

Because lines 2-5 will replace the root element with the last element, and all the elements are distinct, so it has to go through every layer when do the MAX-HEAPIFY.